# The Process that pentesters follow is summarized in the following steps:
   1. Reconnaissance
   2. Enumeration/Scanning
   3. Gaining Access
   4. Privilege Escalation
   5. Covering Tracks
   6. Reporting
    
    
    
#1. Reconnaissance

There are some specialized tools that we can utilize but for this introduction, it is good to know the following tools. 

    Google (specifically Google Dorking)
    Wikipedia
    PeopleFinder.com
    who.is
    sublist3r
    hunter.io
    builtwith.com
    wappalyzer
    
    
    
#2. Enumeration/Scanning

The second phase of the Hacker Methodology is Scanning and Enumeration.

This is where a hacker will start interacting with (scanning and enumerating) the target to attempt to find vulnerabilities related to the target.

This is where more specialized tools start to come in to the arsenal. Tools like nmap, dirb, metasploit, exploit-db, Burp Suite and others are very useful to help us try to find vulnerabilities in a target. (Don't worry about them now, you can get into the nitty-gritty later)

In the scanning and enumeration phase, the attacker is interacting with the target to determine its overall attack surface.

The attack surface determines what the target might be vulnerable to in the Exploitation phase. These vulnerabilities might be a range of things: anything from a webpage not being properly locked down, a website leaking information, SQL Injection, Cross Site Scripting or any number of other vulnerabilities. 

Tools :
dirb (used to find commonly-named directories on a website)
dirbuster (similar to dirb but with a cooler name, and with a user interface)
enum4linux (tool used specifically for Linux to find vulnerabilities)
metasploit (this tool is mostly used for exploitation, but it also has some built-in enumeration tools)
Burp Suite (this tool can be used to scan a website for subdirectories and to intercept network traffic)



#3. Exploitation 

One common tool used for exploitation is called Metasploit which has many built-in scripts to try to keep life simple.

We can also used tools like Burp Suite and SQLMap to exploit web applications. There are tools such as msfvenom (for building custom payloads), BeEF (browser-based exploitation), and many many others.



#4. Privilege Escalation 

After we have gained access to a victim machine via the exploitation phase, the next step is to escalate privileges to a higher user account. The following accounts are what we try to reach as a pentester:

    In the Windows world, the target account is usually: Administrator or System.
    In the Linux world, the target account is usually: root

As you can tell, discovering what Operating System a device is running on is very important to determine how we will escalate our privileges later. Once we gain access as a lower level user, we will try to run another exploit or find a way to become root or administrator.

Privilege escalation can take many, many forms, some examples are:

    Cracking password hashes found on the target
    Finding a vulnerable service or version of a service which will allow you to escalate privilege THROUGH the service
    Password spraying of previously discovered credentials (password re-use)
    Using default credentials
    Finding secret keys or SSH keys stored on a device which will allow pivoting to another machine
    Running scripts or commands to enumerate system settings like 'ifconfig' to find network settings, or the command 'find / -perm
    -4000 -type f 2>/dev/null' to see if the user has access to any commands they can run as root

These are just some examples of how privilege escalation could work and there are many more ways in which a privilege escalation could take place. Just think of this section of the methodology as getting to a higher-level user account or pivoting to another machine with the ultimate goal to "own" the machine.



#5. Covering Tracks

Most professional/ethical penetration testers never have the need to "cover their tracks". However, this is still a phase in the methodology.



#6. Reporting

The final phase of the pentest methodology is the reporting phase.

This is one of the most important phases where you will outline everything that you found. The reporting phase often includes the following things:

    The Finding(s) or Vulnerabilities
    The CRITICALITY of the Finding
    A description or brief overview of how the finding was discovered
    Remediation recommendations to resolve the finding
    
The amount of reporting documentation varies widely by the type of engagement that the pentester is involved in. A findings report generally goes in three formats:

    Vulnerability scan results (a simple listing of vulnerabilities)
    Findings summary (list of the findings as outlined above)
    Full formal report.